'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ivview 1
.SH NAME
ivview \- fast, interactive 3D viewer of Inventor files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ivview
.RB [ \-hpw ]
 [files | < file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ivview
reads an Inventor file (or files) and provides a simple interface to
quickly view 3D data. The input files must be valid Inventor 3D files
(versions 1.0 or 2.0).  All the files specified at the command line are
read in and rendered.
.PP
ivview presents a single window containing an Inventor viewer
(\f2examiner viewer\f1 or the \f2walk viewer\f1) and a menu bar.
.PP
Note that if you click and hold the right mouse button, the viewer
pop-up capabilities will be displayed.  Also, note that the viewer
has a help card that provides detailed instruction on how to use it.
.PP
The menu bar contains the following menus:
.TP
.I File
.br
This menu presents a file
.I Open
button, (reads an Inventor file and replaces existing object), an
.I About
button, (displays information about the program), and a
.I Quit
button.
.TP
.I Options
.br
This menu includes a
.I High quality transparency
toggle button that turns the high-quality transparency option on and off
(high quality uses DELAYED_BLEND transparency, low quality uses SCREEN_DOOR
transparency), 
and an
.I Edit background color
button that pops up the Inventor Color Editor to change the background color.
.TP
.I Optimize
.br
This menu includes an
.I Optimize for speed
toggle button that will run the
.B ivfix
utility and a
.I Cull backfaces
toggle button that will insert an
.B SoShapeHints
node that will cause only front-facing polygons to be drawn.  When
checked, both of these options apply to the current scene and any
scenes read in using the File/Open menu.  Note that the 
.B ivfix 
utility
completely restructures the scene, losing any interaction or animation
nodes or engines.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are allowed:
.TP
.BI \-h
Prints the usage message for ivview.
.TP
.BI \-p
Enables the performance meter.  Off by default.
.TP
.BI \-w
Use an 
.B SoXtWalkViewer 
instead of the default 
.B SoXtExaminerViewer. 
Off by default.  This option is incompatible with the -p option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.B ivview < /usr/share/data/models/toys/jackInTheBox.iv
.IP
.B ivview -w /usr/share/data/models/buildings/Barcelona.iv
.IP
.B ivview myCameraAndLights.iv myObject.iv

.SH SOURCE CODE
Note that the source code to 
.I ivview 
comes with the
.I Open Inventor 3D Toolkit.
.SH FILES
/usr/share/data/models/* - Sample Inventor data files
/usr/share/src/Inventor/tools/ivview/* - Source to ivview
.SH SEE ALSO
inventor, ivfix, ivcat, ivinfo,
SceneViewer, gview
