'\"macro stdmacro
.TH qmorf 1
.SH NAME
qmorf \- 3d morphing program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qmorf
[qfile1] [qfile2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I qmorf
reads in a series of Inventor quad mesh files and draws an animated
sequence which metamorphoses from one object to the next.
These quad mesh files must meet the exact specifications described
below (40x40).
.PP
.I Qmorf 
is not related to other morphing programs (like the program used to produce
the effects in Michael Jackson's "Black or White" video).
Those programs use image warping techniques to modify 2D images;
this program actually modifies an object's 3D geometry.
.PP
.I qmorf
was written using the Open Inventor 3d Toolkit.
Currently, qmorf is only able to interpolate between files that contain
QuadMeshes with 40 by 40 vertices (1521 quads).  
Standard C++ code is used to linearly interpolate the positions 
of the vertices of the intermediate geometry.  
Open Inventor is used to linearly interpolate the objects' textures 
or materials.  The intermediate geometry is drawn twice, 
first with the first set of materials or textures or materials applied.  
Then the object is drawn again with the second set of materials 
or textures applied, modified to be semi-transparent.  
Open Inventor (using OpenGL) blends the semi-transparent object 
with the already drawn geometry.  By varying the level of 
transparency, a smooth fade from one object's texture to the next 
is achieved.
The background is derived from code originally written by Drew Olbrich.  
It is a 21 by 21 QuadMesh (400 quads) with a different material at each vertex.
The positions of the vertices are determined by a variety of mathematical 
functions (e.g. sine waves, exponential functions, etc), while the colors 
are determined by a fractal noise function.  The positions and colors are 
edited each frame of the animation , interpolating from 
one set of positions and colors to the next.
The total number of quads in any given frame is 3,442 (1552*2+400). 
The main window of the program is the standard Inventor Examiner Viewer 
Xt component.  The button and sliders are Motif widgets.  
.PP
Textures are automatically turned off if too slow!
.TP
.I About button
Brings up a short summary about qmorf.
.TP
.I Quit button
Quits qmorf.
.SH SOURCE CODE
Note that the source code to 
.I maze 
comes with the
.I Open Inventor 3d Toolkit.
.SH FILES
/usr/share/data/models/CyberHeads/* - Sample qmorf files
.br
/usr/share/src/Inventor/demos/qmorf/* - Source to qmorf
.SH CREDITS
Data for the heads courtesy of:  Cyberware Laboratory Inc. 
.SH SEE ALSO
drop, maze, textomatic, revo,
SceneViewer, inventor, ivview, noodle 
