'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SceneViewer 1
.SH NAME
SceneViewer \- 3d editor and viewer for Inventor scenes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SceneViewer
.RB [ \-e
env_file]
[file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I SceneViewer
is a program for viewing and interacting with Inventor scene graph files (the
SGI 3D file format standard).
.I SceneViewer
was written to demonstrate Inventor features, and serves as the 
basis for the IRIS Explorer Render Module.
.PP
When SceneViewer is run, a window appears containing the Inventor 
.I examiner viewer
and a menu bar. The viewer allows the user to interactively
change the view of the scene through direct manipulation, or
indirect slider and push button controls.
The menu bar contains the following menus:
.TP
.I File
.br
This menu supports file reading and writing, and launches a
dialog for printing to a printer or to PostScript file.
.TP
.I Edit
.br
This menu enables copy and paste of 3D data, selecting all objects, 
and deleting the currently selected objects.
.TP
.I Viewing
.br
This menu controls viewing options.
It allows different viewing paradigms to be employed: the 
.I examiner
viewer which provides a virtual trackball interface, the
.I fly-through
viewer for traveling through expansive data sets, the
.I walk
viewer for architectural walk-throughs, and the
.I plane
viewer for orthographic projections.
The menu also enables different types of transparency,
fog effects, antialiasing, and background color controls.
.TP
.I Selection
.br
This menu allows the different selection policies to be demonstrated.
A selection policy determines how objects get added and removed from
the collection of selected objects.
.TP
.I Editors
.br
This menu launches the material editor and transform sliders.
An object must be selected for the menu to be active.
.TP
.I Manips
.br
This menu allows different manipulators to act on the current
selection, including the
.I "trackball, handle box, jack, center ball,"
and
.I "transform box."
Manipulators can also be turned off, in which case selected objects
are surrounded with a red wireframe box highlight.
.TP
.I Lights
.br
This menu allows directional, point, and spot lights to be
created and edited. It also allows lights to be turned on and off.
.PP
For more information on how to use the viewers and editors
employed by the scene viewer, please see SceneViewer's runtime help cards.
.SH SOURCE CODE
Note that the source code to 
.I SceneViewer 
comes with the 
.I Open Inventor 3d Toolkit.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are allowed:
.TP
.BI \-e " env_file"
Read the passed environment file, and use the lights,
camera, and environment settings found there.
.SH FILES
/usr/share/data/models/* - Sample 3D data files
/usr/share/src/Inventor/demos/SceneViewer/* - Source to SceneViewer
.SH SEE ALSO
drop, gview, inventor, ivcat, ivview, 
maze, noodle, qmorf, revo, showcase, textomatic
